I had the record for a man and boy that's in the 14th wall.
I had nearly 15 ton of large coal for a man and boy.
A record of the pit.
At the magnificent sum of 1.7 safety a ton.
What do you think of that? 1.7 safety.
A ton of coal.
And it's a very gassy scene.
I had a couple of gas from my lamp up in the gauze.
You see that would be about 2 inches or 2.5.
Really, if there had been good ventilation, it would have been really dangerous.
We couldn't have worked there.
But I was working in that, where the gas was up in the gauze.
And one day it was awful. We couldn't keep light hardly.
Our lights were down just on the top of the pipe of the lamp.
So I said to the other men, I said, look here, they complained to me.
I was working in the main opening work.
And they called me and they complained they couldn't see much.
So I went and looked for the bosses.
They were always down the pit.
And I saw them.
But when they seen me come in, they would come to meet me.
What's the matter? They thought accident.
I said, oh no, no accident.
But I said, you want to come down and examine our place?
We can't work there. It's full of gas.
Well, I knew how to test for a gas slug.
The others didn't.
And the men used to shout to me, what is it looking like today in the island?
Well, I'd make a test and I'd tell them.
You see, I knew the job.
So the official, I told him that there was a lot of gas there and we couldn't keep light.
Our light was down on the pipe.
Well, on top of that, if you look and lower your light a bit lower,
you'll have a blue cap come up.
A blue cap, that's because it's on top of the light.
And sometimes you reach up in the gauze of the lamp, you see a devi lamp.
And then I went to see them and they said, ask me what's the matter?
I told them that we couldn't work, that light was bad.
And I said, the place is full of gases.
No, never, they said.
For the examiner that was around the night before, he used to examine for the day shift.
He always reported all clear and he used to be reporting a lot of lies.
So I always found gas where I was working.
Did you ever work in naked light pits?
Oh yes.
What sort of light did you use then?
Oh, oil lamp.
And stick them in a loop in your cap.
Did you use candles at all?
Oh yes.
And clay to stick them up.
On your cap?
Yes, on your phone or stick them on the posts.
On the supports of the top or on the side, according to where you were working.